lesson-id=lesson-2
number=2
title=Everything is Connected
type=lesson-page

[center]**Everything is Connected**[/center]

 “There is an aspect of reality which we don’t ordinarily see but nevertheless connects everthing throughout space and time” - Dean Radin

          As you consider the verified case studies presented below, consider the possibility that what appears outwardly to be different forms of ESP may all be examples of human minds being in contact with a vast invisible information store that connects everything together in the universe - a  store of information not limited by the physical boundaries of person, place, object, or time. What differs is not the hidden structure of the information itself, but how the human mind interacts with it. In one case it is experienced as another person’s thought, in another as a distant scene, in another as an event from the future or the past. The information appears to always be available in the here and now, while the sensory or mental form in which it is perceived - visual, auditory, olfactory, symbolic, etc. varies.

          Many cases of ESP are difficult to classify cleanly. A single case may look partly telepathic, partly clairvoyant, or partly precognitive, which suggests that these apparent categories may overlap more than they differ. All these cases taken together suggest that everything that happens is connected and there is one vast, invisible, underlying information repository outside of space and time that records everything that is accessed, translated, and understood by the mind in different ways. In one setting it may be experienced as another person’s thought, in another as the physical shape of a distant place, in another as a future event, and in another as information associated with an object. 

Assuming a single underlying fundamental process is simpler than postulating a number of separate paranormal mechanisms. We don’t understand how the information is encoded, but, given the examples below, it seems quite clear that the information is amazingly complete and that minds anywhere have the ability to access it. It seems like the information is both "out there" and in our minds at the same time – and it is about everything at once. 

The witnessed and documented cases below provide examples which begin to show how complete this invisible information repository is, and how connected everything is inside and outside of it:

Lost and Found Harp

My eleven-year-old daughter, Meg, who’d fallen in love with the harp at age six, had begun performing. She wasn’t playing a classical pedal harp but a smaller, extremely valuable instrument built and carved by a master harp maker. After a Christmas concert, her harp was stolen from the theater where she was playing. For two months we went through every conceivable channel trying to locate it: the police, instrument dealers across the country, the American Harp Society newsletters—even a CBS TV news story. Nothing worked.
Finally, a wise and devoted friend told me, “If you really want that harp back, you should be willing to try anything. Try calling a dowser.” The only thing I knew about dowsers were that they were that strange breed who locate underground water with forked sticks. But according to my friend, the “really good” dowsers can locate not just water but lost objects as well.

Finding lost objects with forked sticks? Well, nothing was happening on the police front, and my daughter, spoiled by several years of playing an extraordinary instrument, had found the series of commercial harps we’d rented simply unplayable. So, half-embarrassed but desperate, I decided to take my friend’s dare. I asked her if she could locate a really good dowser—the best, I said. She promptly called the American Society of Dowsers and came back with the phone number of the society’s current president: Harold McCoy, in Fayetteville, Arkansas.

I called him that day. Harold picked up the phone—friendly, cheerful, heavy Arkansas accent. I told him I’d heard he could dowse for lost objects and that I’d had a valuable harp stolen in Oakland, California. Could he help locate it?

“Give me a second,” he said. “I’ll tell you if it’s still in Oakland.” He paused, then: “Well, it’s still there. Send me a street map of Oakland and I’ll locate that harp for you.” Skeptical—but what, after all, did I have to lose?—I promptly overnighted him a map.

Two days later, he called back. “Well, I got that harp located,” he said. “It’s in the second house on the right on D—— Street, just off L—— Avenue.”

I’d never heard of either street. But I did like the sound of the man’s voice—whoever he was. And I don’t like backing down on a dare. Why not drive to the house he’d identified? At least I’d get the address. I looked on an Oakland map and found the neighborhood. It was miles from anywhere I’d ever been. I got in my car, drove into Oakland, located the house, wrote down the number, called the police, and told them I’d gotten a tip that the harp might be at that house. Not good enough for a search warrant, they said. They were going to close the case—there was no way this unique, portable, and highly marketable item hadn’t already been sold; it was gone forever.

But I found I couldn’t quite let it go. Was it the dare? Was it my admiration for the friend who’d instigated the whole thing? Was it my devastated daughter? Or was it just that I had genuinely liked the sound of that voice on the other end of the line?

I decided to post flyers in a two-block area around the house, offering a reward for the harp’s return. It was a crazy idea, but why not? I put up flyers in those two blocks, and only those two blocks. I was embarrassed enough about what I was doing to tell just a couple of close friends about it.

Three days later, my phone rang. A man’s voice told me he’d seen a flyer outside his house describing a stolen harp. He said it was exactly the harp his next-door neighbor had recently obtained and showed him. He wouldn’t give me his name or number, but offered to get the harp returned to me. And two weeks later, after a series of circuitous telephone calls, he told me to meet a teenage boy at 10:00 P.M., in the rear parking lot of an all-night Safeway. I arrived to find a young man loitering in the lot. He looked at me, and said, “The harp?” I nodded. Within minutes, the harp was in the back of my station wagon and I drove off.
Twenty-five minutes later, as I turned into my driveway, I had the thought, *This changes everything.*

Glimpsing the Future: "Her Name Will be Lydia"

Stefan Ossowiecki (“ah soviet zki”) (1877 – 1944) was a modest Polish engineer and industrialist who demonstrated exceptional psychic ability from an early age. He was happy to participate in controlled observations and experiments conducted in Warsaw and Paris. The case below occurred in 1927. A tenor singer, D. Smirnov, asked Ossowiecki what would happen to him in the near future. Ossowiecki commented:

After concentrating for a few minutes, being in a very good mood, I easily transported myself into his world and told him, “You will divorce your wife. You will be invited for a number of concerts to America, where you will meet a woman, a Russian, with whom you will fall in love and whom you will marry shortly after. Her name will be Lydia.”

Smirnov denied this vigorously, saying that this was impossible since he had no intention of going to America and getting married again. Two years later, in 1929, he visited Warsaw again. …

Antoni Jaroszewicz reported: “I confirm that everything Mr. Ossowiecki has written about Smirnov and the prophecy according to which the singer would divorce his wife and marry again, this time a Russian called Lydia whom he would meet in America, came true exactly.” (Barrington et al., p. 120)


Another case is from a public experiment conducted on October 29, 1925 in Warsaw in which Ossowiecki was shown a sealed envelope.

Transcribed narrative:

A letter from Spain… I see a yellow-white house, two story, entrance through a small garden, and on the right a lot of greenery, stone stairs around, entrance on the right hand side. The house of a man of modest means. Then a moment in the study, when he is writing this letter, not a letter. 
A small dark-haired man, an open forehead, very lively, dressed in black, six o’clock, a hall next door. His wife passes, he is upset by a terrible tragedy, he has lived through the loss of a child, a girl. His wife expects another. A boy has been born already, they wanted a girl. Masses of books around, leather seats, not new. When he was 
writing this letter, a man entered, they talked. Next to the study a narrow vestibule, from there a tiny hall, glass verandah towards the garden, lots of flowers and greenery.
A strange child next to him. The wife is 32, dark hair, pointed nose, dress in black, something black hanging from the neck – these are dice.

The master, the doctor, he has scissors on the table, he is cutting up paper, holding papers. It is not a letter, only something written down. A man of science, studies a lot, has a number of degrees, has encyclopedic knowledge.

He has approached the table and he begins to write, he is bent. He is cutting bits of green paper, the seal ready on the table. I see what and how he draws.

He wanted to draw a circle within a square, then a face, and he finished with a point” (Ossowiecki draws. [See Figures below]). He gets up, lights a cigarette and comes back to the table. He picks up a pencil or a pen and writes a question, draws an enormous ‘T.’ Here he writes something, two questions, questions about the paranormal. He asks me if I believe in telepathy. ”At the top it is written in French. There is someone else in the room, an older man. The question: ‘Croyez-vous à la télépathie?’ The second – do I believe in life after death? The apartment has four, six rooms.”

When the envelope was cut open, inside was found a sheet of white paper. folded in two, covered by three rectangular sheets, two of which were green. The drawings and the sentences written on the white sheet correspond in the smallest detail to the drawing by Ossowiecki. The documents were sent to Martinez, who wrote back to the Metapsychical Institute, and to Ossowiecki, who cites from the letter to himself:

Everything that you saw, apart from a leather armchair, is totally accurate. 

Below is shown the actual picture in the envelope compared with the picture drawn by Ossowiecki.

[image:insealedenvelope width=60 left=20 caption="Picture in the sealed opaque envelope"]

[image:drawnbyossowiecki width=60 left=20 caption="Picture drawn by Ossowiecki"]

(Barrington et al., 2005, p. 93)


Glimpsing the Past

Below is an account of an experiment carried out by the Polish Psychophysical Society. It was conducted by Prosper Szmurlo, editor of Zagadnienia Metapsychiczne. On January 20, 1935. M. Denoise Jonky assembled the package and gave it to Szmurlo, who, after trying a few times unsuccessfully to arrange an experiment with Ossowiecki, put it in his desk drawer, where it stood untouched for years and forgotten. 

When Szmurlo heard that Mr. Jonky had died, Szmurlo remembered the box and arranged to meet with Ossowiecki. At that time, the contents of the package were unknown to anyone living. The package was covered with cloth and cross-tied with cord sealed with wax at the ends and crossing points. 

The package has been sent to someone who looked very much like M. Gravier. It was in his apartment, the package stayed there, I see it down there in the bookcase.

There are some pieces of something in there, several things … two … three… brown…like lime stones. There are also some metal clips. There is a connection with volcanic mineral. It was once in the hands of a girl. She was to give them to someone … it’s something like a family souvenir.

There is something here that pulls me away to other worlds … towards another planet. Now I am seeing a huge planet, immense, a distant world quite unconnected with ours.
It is rushing headlong through outer space. It collides with another body. There is a catastrophic cosmic event.

Something breaks away, breaks up, shatters into small pieces. They rush on, they fall to earth in various places. Yes, yes, they are pieces of meteorite. […] (Barrington et al., pp 82-83.)

When the package was opened, it contained, among other articles correctly described elsewhere in the narrative, 3 pieces of light brown stone analyzed to be limestone, and it contained paper wrapped around meteorites, labelled AEROLITH.



"Thoughtforms" 

Harold McCoy, the dowser, healer, and clairvoyant who 
successfully located a stolen harp over 2000 miles away
after receiving a request over the telephone from a person he had never met, provides an example for understanding what is meant by a "thoughtform." Below, McCoy explains how he used one to get rid of pests:

I got into a meditative state…When I was visualizing, I saw a bubble come out of my solar plexus – just energy, a “thought form.” It got larger and larger, and then I was inside it. I was in the geometric center of this bubble. It looked like a 
“dome” because half of it was underneath the ground, so it could take care of other things. So, in my mind’s eye, I could see this bubble getting bigger and bigger, so that it went out to the edge of my yard and my garden.

I was programming the following to happen: I was saying, “Ticks and chiggers will be very uncomfortable in the center of this bubble, and they’ll all want to get out of it. Those that are out will not come into it, because it is filled with 
energy that is detrimental to ticks and chiggers.” 

I was visualizing this bubble and these thought forms. You can program things to do what you want. I programmed this bubble so that ticks and chiggers would be uncomfortable in it and move out of the yard. In a few days I realized I had no more ticks or chiggers on me. (McCoy, 2011, p.37)

A thoughtform essentially is the creation of a thought 
with intention which can be associated with a specific location or material in space and which persists. The intention in a thought form can influence the behavior of living organisms.



Locating a lost body

Gerrard Croiset recorded telephone calls of clients that were later turned into verbatim typewritten reports by his assistants. In the police case below, the victim was an eight-year-old girl that fell through the ice. After a two-day search failed to find the body, Croiset was consulted by telephone. He responded as follows:

You are speaking with Croiset. I know you are searching for a girl that drowned the day before yesterday. You are calling now from a house not far from the dike. If you walk towards the dike in the direction of an excavator you will see two inlets. At the end of the second inlet you make an angle of 50 degrees on the axis of the dike. You must dive approximately 35 metres out from that point. You will not find the child immediately. She is covered completely with a layer of sand. Only the little boot with the skate attached protrudes above the sand. The wall of earth collapsed.
A hole was cut in the ice at the place indicated by the psychic. Within five minutes a diver came up with the little skate, and the body was found.
https://psi-encyclopedia.spr.ac.uk/articles/croiset-archive


Telesomatic Phenomena

Consider the case of the twins, Marta and Silvia:

Marta had burned her hand on a hot clothes iron. As a large red blister was forming, an identical one developed on the hand of Silvia, who was away visiting her grandparents at the time. 

Silvia was taken to the doctor, unaware of what had happened to her sister Marta. When the two little girls were united, their parents saw that the blisters were the same size and on the same part of the hand (Dossey, 2016, p. 196).

More cases of this type have been documented (see Dossey, 2016; Playfair, 2002). This kind of telepathic connection, where physical symptoms such as burns and bruises are shared, is termed a telesomatic event


Linked EEG responses across distance

Radin (2004) conducted an experiment in which one subject (the receiver, “R”) relaxed in a room shielded from radio waves facing a video camera. In another room, a friend (the sender, “S”) watched a video screen at random times which, after 5-25 seconds of a blank screen, would show the image of the receiver in the remote room for 15 seconds. Both subjects were connected to EEG data recorders. EEG data averaged over 622 trials from 13 pairs of subjects shows that both the senders’ and the receivers’ brain wave activity showed a peak when the sender saw the video of the receiver transition to on or off (Figure 2a). The data also showed that the stronger the EEG peak variance in the sender, the stronger the EEG peak variance in the receiver (Figure 2b). 

Standish et al. (2004) have replicated Radin’s basic finding and comment:

Since 1963 seven independent laboratories in the United States, Mexico, England, and Germany have published data showing statistically significant correlated EEG signals between two humans who are separated up to 10 meters and in 
sensory isolation from one another. Since 1963, each laboratory has used different psychophysical, electrophysiologic, and statistical methods that began in 1963.

The correlation between brain signals that appear to occur between human brains at a distance seems to have been established after 40 years of research. Research must now proceed with studying its physical and biological mech
anism, its generalizability to varying populations and relationships, and its clinical application (Standish et al., 2004, p. 313; cf. Richards et al., 2005 and Radin, 2017)

Distant Intentionality

Achterberg et al. (2005) published an experiment, entitled ‘Evidence for Correlations Between Distant Intentionality and Brain Function in Recipients: A Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging Analysis’, in the Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine in 2005. In this experiment, eleven healers who expressed an ability to connect or heal at a distance - the phenomenon of distant intentionality (DI) - were recruited from the island of Hawaii. Each healer selected a person with whom they felt a special connection as a recipient for DI. Each recipient was placed in an MRI scanner that was physically isolated from the healer. At random 2-minute periods unknown to recipients, healers sent forms of DI that related to their own healing practices. Very highly significant differences (p = 0.000127) in brain activity were found between periods of healing and no healing. “This study … demonstrated that distant intentionality (DI), defined as sending thoughts at a distance, is correlated with an activation of certain brain functions in the recipients” (Achterberg et al., 2005, p. 965).


Lie Detector Shows a Telepathic Link

For a television show in 2003, Playfair set up a test for twins Richard and Damien Powles. Richard was placed in a sound-proof booth with a buicket of ice water while Damien was some distance away in another studio hooked up with a [underline]polygraph machine[/underline] (a "lie detector" machine that measures respiration, muscle and skin response). When Richard plunged his hand into the ice water and let out a gasp, there was an obvious blip on Damien's pllygraph that measured his respiration, as if he too had let out a gasp.

In a similar experiment before a live TV audience in 1977, twin teenagers Elaine and Evelyn Dove were likewise separated. Elaine was in the sound-proof booth with a pyramid-shaped box while Evelyn was sequestered in another room with the polygraph. When Elaine was sitting relaxed, suddenly the box exploded in a harmless but shocking pop of sparks, flashes, and colored smoke. Evelyn's pllygraph recorded her psychic reaction at the same moment, with one of the needles running right off the edge of the paper.
https:///www.liveabout.com/twin-telepathy-best-evidence-2593932

A House in London

"My husband and I fell in love with a house in London on our honeymoon - very distinctive, across from a park. Fourteen years later, living in Boston, I woke up one day, and thought, maybe we could buy it. I tracked down a realtor in London, asked if she could figure out the address and find out if it was for sale. Cracy! But she did. The man who'd been living there had just died: the For Sale sign wasn't even up yet. We bought it the next week."
https:///www.amazon.com/Extrodinary-Knowing-Science-Skepticism-Inexplicable/dp/0553382233




Psychometry

Psychometry is a form of clairvoyant phenomena in which the clairvoyant becomes consciously aware of the desired information by means of the connecting link of material objects, such as a sealed envelope with written material inside, a piece of hair, article of clothing etc., which has had previous associations with the thing, person or scene regarding which clairvoyant information is desired. The desired information can be accessed by a clairvoyant in the following way:

Take strange objects, and, sitting in a quiet room with the object held to your forehead, shut out all thoughts of the outside world, and forget all personal affairs. In a short time, if the conditions are all right, you will begin to have flashes of scenes connected with the history of the object.
(Panchadasi, 2011, p. 63)

TO REMEMBER: 

EVERYTHING IS CONNECTED

PSI-ENCODED INFORMATION RECORDS EVERYTHING THAT HAPPENS

MINDS CAN ACCESS THIS INFORMATION

Assigned video: The entire documentary is 52 minutes in length and offers much. If that is too long, start at
37:27 to see one example of animal telepathic communication.
          
The Animal Communicator - Anna Breytenbach [Full documentary](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T2vhV63lx2k)

[Link to 37:27](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T2vhV63lx2k&t=2247s)  [Link to 15:41](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T2vhV63lx2k&t=941s)